# project1
First exercise of Object Programming course, year 2.

### [v.pradine](https://github.com/ErikaKriks/project1/releases/tag/v.pradine)
**main.cpp** - the script for students' final mark calculations, all data is input by the user.
<br>**autogenerated.cpp** - the sript for student's final makr calculations, where exam mark and homework marks are generated randomly.


### [v.01](https://github.com/ErikaKriks/project1/releases/tag/v.01)
**main.cpp** - the script for students' final mark calculations, all data is input by the user.
<br>**Additional functionality**
* Reading data from a file: sample file kursiokai.txt, file structure: first name, last name, student grades and exam grade.
* Exception handling: The readStudentsFromFile function uses exception handling.
* Code formatted.


### [v.02](https://github.com/ErikaKriks/project1/releases/tag/v.02)
**main.cpp** - the script for students' final mark calculations, all data is input by the user.
<br>**Additional functionality**
* Generations of students_number.txt files with information about 1 000, 10 000, 100 000, 1 000 000, 10 000 000 students.
* Sorting students based on the Final Mark into two groups - failed and passed.
* Experiment measuring time of each process performed.

#### Results of the experiment
##### Execution times for 1 000 students:
Data generation and saving: 0.023 seconds
<br>Reading: 0.002 seconds
<br>Categorization: 0.015 seconds
<br>Saving categorized data: 0.009 seconds

##### Execution times for 10 000 students:
Data generation and saving: 0.095 seconds
<br>Reading: 0.016 seconds
<br>Categorization: 0.090 seconds
<br>Saving categorized data: 0.054 seconds

##### Execution times for 100 000 students:
Data generation and saving: 0.832 seconds
<br>Reading: 0.187 seconds
<br>Categorization: 0.893 seconds
<br>Saving categorized data: 0.528 seconds

##### Execution times for 1 000 000 students:
Data generation and saving: 8.452 seconds
<br>Reading: 2.263 seconds
<br>Categorization: 9.152 seconds
<br>Saving categorized data: 5.243 seconds

##### Execution times for 10 000 000 students:
Data generation and saving: 91.601 seconds
<br>Reading: 26.528 seconds
<br>Categorization: 93.732 seconds
<br>Saving categorized data: 58.0112 seconds

### [v.03](https://github.com/ErikaKriks/project1/releases/tag/v.03)
**main.cpp** - the script for students' final mark calculations, all data is input by the user.
<br>**Additional functionality**
* Vector structure changed to List.
* Experiment comparing List and Vector structures efficiency performed.

Technical Specifications of Computer:
* 6-core GPU,19-core GPU
* 200GB/s memory bandwidth
* 16 GB RAM
* 512GB SSD


| Records | Data Generation | Data Reading | Data Categorisation | Data Saving| 
|--|--|--|--|--|
| 1000 | 0.0334759s | 0.043547s | 0.0308996s | 0.0228836s |
| 10000 | 0.258879s | 0.437449s | 0.282487s | 0.23899s |
| 100000 | 2.67213s  | 4.29333s | 3.19421s | 2.45287s | 
| 1000000 | 28.2486s | 45.9048s | 38.8148s | 26.3797s |
| 10000000 | 291.395s | 486.684s | 339.999s | 237.5145s |
|--|--|--|--|--|

Data Reading from File
| Įrašų kiekis | std::vector | std::list |
|--|--|--|--|
| 1000 | 0.0346424s | 0.0297271s |
| 10000 | 0.377744s | 0.315256s |
| 100000 | 3.94547s  | 3.68806s | 
| 1000000 | 45.5481s | 37.872s |
| 10000000 | 407.2541s | 319.776s |


Data Categorisation 
| Įrašų kiekis | std::vector | std::list |
|--|--|--|--|
| 1000 | 0.0165383s | 0.0198501s |
| 10000 | 0.155005s | 0.181945s |
| 100000 |  1.80015s  | 2.18703s |
| 1000000 | 25.9591s | 24.8492s | 
| 10000000 | 215.4571s | 238.7514s |

